Hydrangeas are plants of Asian origin, very rustic and easy to cultivate, with deciduous leaves
These plants produce flowers on the new branches, so pruning is done to stimulate the development of new shoots
To keep the shrub compact and stimulate flowering it is advisable to prune the hydrangeas every year
Proceed in autumn or towards the end of winter, when the plant is in vegetative rest
First of all the wilted flowers and the ruined, stunted, twisted or sick branches are removed
Then proceed by cutting all the branches shortening them by about a third of their length
In late autumn the hydrangeas already present the enlarged buds that will develop the branches of the following year
therefore when we prune the old branches we arrive up to a well developed gem, which is possibly placed towards the outside of the bush
We avoid excessive pruning, which could cause the presence of many new branches
and therefore to an excessive number of flowers, which would therefore tend to be too small
Hydrangea pruning should also be done during the growing season
also during the year also, on the plants in vegetation, we remove the weak or ruined branches from the bad weather